README.md, before:

# Java Oracle App to PostgreSQL Migration Guide

## Scenario Overview

Contoso Tech specializes in providing leading edge training and technical evangelism. They host multiple conferences around the world containing packed audiences. The website used for promoting the conferences, marketing session tracks, and registering attendees has been in production for several years.

Contoso has been modernizing their infrastructure and the operations team would like to move this application from on-premises to the cloud as it is one of the last applications in their shrinking datacenter. The operations team recently had to move the application and database to newer hardware. During the migration, it was discovered the database configuration was hard-coded in the application configuration.  The application failed to start after migration and developers were called in to resolve. Since then, the development team has made great improvements to the web and API stack preparing for the move to the cloud. However, there is a reluctance to modernize or change the database feeding the web site due to the amount objects layered on over the years. A lot has changed in the database marketplace since this application was originally developed and there might be new database options to consider.

Management has heard about the benefits of the PostgreSQL database:


- High performance and scalability.
- Popular programming languages have a PostgreSQL provider.
- It can store many of the data types required by applications.
- It has an open-source licensing model.

Steps required to migrate to this database platform need to be explored by the development team.
The development team is motivated, but has communicated firmly migration is not as easy as changing a connection string in the application configuration. PostgreSQL has very similar capabilities to the existing Oracle database, but special considerations would be required for database objects that did not convert transparently. Downtime, functionality degradation, and loss of data are biggest risks for this project. The development team has been given the task of documenting the migration and risk mitigation plan.

The web application consists of an Angular frontend, Java Spring Maven web API, and an Oracle database.

This guide will cover the migration path for hosting an existing Java Spring Oracle application in Azure utilizing App Services and managed PostgreSQL PaaS service. The topics of application scaling and containerization are important, but will not be covered as the focus of this guide is the challenges of database migration.

Commit message:

Minor updates to the read.md

README.md, after:

# Java Oracle App to Azure Database for PostgreSQL Migration Guide

## Guide Overview

This guide will walk the reader through the steps of migrating a on-premises Java Oracle application to Azure Database for PostgreSQL. The guide covers high level reasons management should consider migrating to PostgreSQL as well as the technical steps required for project success. The document was created to be read from end to end, but has been divided into complete subject sections. Readers with specific questions can skip to specific document reference sections for complete explanations.

The corresponding sample application is simple, but has realistic migration challenges a user would have to solve. Also, many of the migration steps have been explained in enough detail a user could create a meaningful project plan. Step-by-step instructions have been provided for setup and migration execution.

## Target Audience

- Application developer
- Database administrator
- Infrastructure architect

## Azure services and related products
- Azure Database for PostgreSQL
- Azure Data Migration Services
- Azure Application Services
- Azure Resource Management templates
- Azure Key Vault
